The final type of curve we'll take a look at is the Intersection Curve. This is quite different than the other curves we've seen so far. The other curves were listed in the FeatureManager Tree as Curves - not sketches. The Intersection Curve is actually a Sketch tool. It's used to generate curves within Sketches as you'll see in the following examples.
 
Let's start by creating a curve at the intersection of a Plane and a surface. I have a planar surface here, but this could be any type of surface or model face that intersects a plane.
 
The Intersection Curve is found on the Tools drop-down menu, in the Sketch Tools section, or it's found under the Convert Entities drop-down icon. Notice as soon as I selected the command, the PropertyManager appears with only a selection box active. From the FeatureManager, I'll select the Front Plane, and the planar surface. When I click OK, the Intersection Curve is created and I am placed into edit sketch mode for a 3D sketch that was just created.
 
The only problem with this is that if I want to continue working on this sketch, I'm stuck with a 3D Sketch, even if I don't need one. I can avoid the 3D Sketch either by selecting a plane before launching the Intersection Curve command or by launching the command while already in a 2D sketch. Let me cancel this sketch, and start over to show both of these methods.
 
First, I'll select the Front Plane from the FeatureManager Tree, and click on the Intersection Curve icon. Now, all I have to do is select the planar surface to generate the Intersection Curve. Once I press OK, a new sketch is started, but it's a regular 2D sketch. Let me cancel out of this again.
 
Alternatively, I can start a sketch on the Front Plane first, then activate the Intersection Curve command, select the planar surface, and click OK to create the intersected curve as a 2D sketch.
 
 Keep in mind that you can create an intersection curve between a Plane, the Front plane in this example, and any surface or model face that intersects it. In fact, if you needed to, you can create an intersection curve between a plane and an entire Part.
 
Just select a plane, launch the Intersection Curve command, and instead of clicking a face from the graphics area, select the Part icon in the FeatureManager Tree.
 
In the last examples, I used a Plane to create intersection curves. You don't have to use a plane; you can create intersections between two surfaces or faces like these here.
 
Instead of pre-selecting a plane, I'll launch the Intersection Curve command, and then select both surfaces.