Creating sketch blocks is a straightforward process that takes place inside of sketches after creating sketch entities for your design. One of the benefits is the ability to link together sketch blocks so that you can see how they interact with one another. I'll show you how this process works using this layout sketch for a crankshaft and piston that I'll be able to move to simulate how the motion would look.
 
Here, the larger circle on the left represents a shaft rotating normal to the Front Plane and contains an eccentric, or offset circular component that will revolve about the shaft's central axis. This component is connected to a series of slot-shaped linkages with a piston head at the end that fits into a hollow pipe located parallel to the Front Plane. This is depicted here as a cross-sectional view using a pair of smaller rectangles on the top and bottom.
 
 To simulate how this motion would look without building out all the components, I can make use of sketch blocks. I'll need to use tools from the Blocks toolbar which can be accessed by right-clicking anywhere in the CommandManager, expanding the Toolbars flyout, and selecting "Blocks". This contains all tools related to blocks, such as Make, Edit, and Insert block. I'll cover the rest of the tools throughout this section, but right now I'll show the "Make Block" tool by selecting it.
 
From here, I can select the components I'd like to include in the block by clicking or box-selecting entities in the graphics area. I'll start by selecting the offset circular component on the left, click OK, and the sketch block appears in the Feature Tree under the active sketch it was created in. I'll repeat this process for the linkages and piston head, but first I'd like to point out an additional option. In the Make Block PropertyManager, you can expand the Insertion Point section to display the "Layout Sketch Block" option. Enabling this allows me to create insertion points by clicking and dragging the blue manipulator which can snap to edges and vertices. If you save and insert this block into a document, these insertion points can act as drag manipulators, points for rotation and scaling, and additional entities that you can apply relations to. I'll discuss saving and loading blocks in another lesson, but for now, I'll leave this option alone, and create the other blocks.
 
 Notice now when I click and drag a sketch segment on any of the blocks, the entire block moves as one unit. This behavior is also observed when you apply relations and dimensions to any of their sketch entities within a block. Let me show you. I'll click and drag the left endpoint of the first slot's centerline to the centerpoint of the circle, connect the following slot to the previous one in the same manner, and connect the left endpoint of the piston head's construction line to the right endpoint of the second slot's centerline.
 
 Now when I move any of the components, the others move with it. Note, however, that you may need to apply additional relations and dimensions after blocks are created to constrain them how you'd like.
 
To better understand what I need for this example, I'll click and drag the circle's centerpoint onto the circular construction line, position the piston head inside the far end of the pipe to fully extend the linkages, and when I click and drag the component at the circle or the links, you can see how I still need to further constrain the piston head so it doesn't cross the boundaries of the hollow pipe.
 
To do this, I'll make the centerlines of the second slot and piston head horizontal, and apply a coincident relation between the centerline of the piston head and the centerpoint of the rectangle representing the hollow pipe. Note that if your sketch appears disconnected for any reason, you can use the rebuild option from the quick access toolbar to correct the graphical error, and then edit the sketch again to further manipulate the sketch blocks. Now when I repeat these movements, that piston remains horizontal and the movement is more accurately depicted.