Manipulating sketch entities can be difficult; and if the sketch is already fully defined, trying to make one small change can easily cascade into a huge headache. To help ease that pain, SOLIDWORKS has a set of tools, grouped under the Move Entities flyout, that you can use to Move, Copy, Rotate, Scale, and Stretch your existing sketch entities.
 
Each of these tools can also be enabled from the Tools drop down, in the Sketch Tools flyout. I'll show how each of these tools work by manipulating sketch geometry on this shapes board that'll be a children's toy. I'll start by enabling the most visible one on the CommandManager, Move Entities. When I do, the PropertyManager appears containing two sections: one to select the entities to move, and one to determine how to move them.
 
To get started, I'll pin the PropertyManager, select the hexagon and its inscribed circle in the lower left, and make sure the X/Y option is toggled under the Parameters. Note how the shape's position is defined by a vertical and a horizontal relation on one of its vertices, so if I try and offset it by 1 inch, you'll see that nothing happens. That's because the Keep relations checkbox is enabled, meaning SOLIDWORKS will maintain any constraints between the selected entities, and the rest of the sketch.
 
Notice when I uncheck the box, the offset is now previewed with the circle moving to the right. I can continue to adjust the value here, as well as add a Y-value offset, or click the Repeat button to duplicate the most recent adjustments.
 
 
 
For this example, I'll set the X value to be 2, the Y-value to be 1.5, and click the green check to finalize it. Since I pinned the tool earlier, the preview vanishes and the Parameter values reset, but the entities stay selected so I can make further adjustments.
 
 In this case I do want to make another adjustment, but this time I'll make it using the other Parameter option, From/To. Unlike the X/Y parameters, this option is based on point selections in the graphics area, not numeric inputs. To use it then, I'll make sure the Start point selection box is enabled, and click a point to start the move from.
 
A preview now appears as I move around the graphics area, and the move is completed when I click again. Because this option relies on manual movements in the graphics area, I find that choosing a start point on the entities that I'm moving, or along a reference line, is the easiest way to control everything.
 
This looks good, so I'll exit out of the tool.
 
 When I do, notice how the sketch geometry is now underdefined as indicated by its blue color. This is because moving the shape eliminated the horizontal and vertical relations previously constraining the location of the shape. This is important to note.
 
Now, let me repeat the Move Entities action, this time selecting the large circle on the middle right of the board, and using the From/To option like before. When I go to move the circle off the board, the geometry snaps back to its previous location.
 
 
 
This happens because the circle is defined by dimensions, rather than constraints, and SOLIDWORKS won't override dimensions when making a move using this tool. This can be a bit frustrating, but by keeping this restriction in mind, these tools can be a huge asset when trying to adjust complex parts, or ideate on designs. I'll unpin the PropertyManager and exit the tool. The next tool I'll cover is the Copy Entities tool, and once its enabled, notice that the PropertyManager is identical to the one used in the Move Entities tool. As you might imagine, the Copy Entities tool will have the same workflow as the Move Entities tool, but will make a copy of the entities at the new location, rather than moving them. I'll copy the small circle on the left, snap it to the center of the large circle on the right to create a ring shape, and click the green check. Note that this tool will remove any geometric relations or dimensions applied on the copied entity.
 
 The Rotate Entities tool keeps the same Entities section, but swaps in new Parameter options that require a point to rotate about, and a numeric input for the rotation angle. I'll select the Moon shape to rotate, select the center of the inner arc as the center of rotation, input 135 degrees for the rotation angle, and click the green check. Note that unlike some other geometric relations, fixed relations won't be removed when moving or rotating objects. Similarly, Scale Entities requires a reference point to scale about and includes a numeric input for the scale factor, but it also includes a Copy option so that you can quickly create multiple instances of the entities at different sizes, and removes the option for keep relations. I'll select the heart geometry including its centerline, select the top of the centerline as the point to scale about, and change the scale factor to 1.3. Checking the Copy box changes the preview and lets me adjust the number of copies, but I'll keep this unchecked and click OK.  Finally, the Stretch Entities tool has the same options as the Move and Copy tools, but always keeps relations and attempts to update them to account for the stretch. I'll stretch the square shape in the lower right corner which has a fixed relation along its bottom edge. I'll start by selecting the left, top, and right edges, enable the From/To option, select its upper right vertex as the point to stretch about, stretch it to the right, click to complete the command, and notice that this removed some relations and added an angular dimension defining the stretch angle.