There are two uses for projected curves: to take a 2D Sketch and map it onto a surface, and to combine two sketches into a single 3D curve. First let's take a look at mapping a sketch onto a surface. Here, I already have both a sketch created on the Front plane and a surface. This is an extruded surface, but it can be any type of surface, including any face of a model. You'll find the Project Curve command on the Features tab of the CommandManager, under the Curves icon. In the PropertyManager, you can select one of the two types of Projections. In this case, I'll use Sketch on Faces. In the first selection window, I'll select the sketch to project. You can do this from the FeatureManager or the graphics window. I'll next select the face I want to project onto, and note that this can be one or more faces.
 
An arrow will appear indicating the direction in which the sketch is being projected. To flip this direction, you can click the arrow in the graphics area, or use the Reverse Projection checkbox in the PropertyManager. To change the direction entirely, you can enable the Direction of Projection selection box, and select a straight entity. I'll clear this selection window for now, click OK, and you can see the resulting curve on the surface. Next, I'll show you how to use the same Project Curve command to combine two sketches. I'll switch over to a part file containing a couple of 2D sketches: one on the Top Plane and one on the Front Plane. I've also used these sketches to create a couple of surfaces that I've hidden from view and will come back to momentarily to help visualize what's going on.
 
 Note that when using the Project Curve command, the two sketch planes have to intersect; they can't be parallel to each other. I'll launch the Project Curve command again, and this time I'll toggle the Sketch on sketch option. When I select both sketches, you can see a preview of the projected curve. I'll click OK, and the curve is complete. To better understand how SOLIDWORKS is computing the curve, I'll make the surfaces visible, and you can see how their intersection matches the shape of the projected curve.