SOLIDWORKS lets you insert an image file into a sketch that you can use as an underlay as you create sketch geometry. This can be useful if you're trying to trace the outline of a shape... or to model something based on a picture you may have taken of it. I'll begin by launching the sketch picture tool from the tools..., sketch tools drop down menu.
SOLIDWORKS lets you use many different types of images for a sketch picture, such as bitmap..., gif..., jpeg..., PNG..., and WMF files. When you find the image, click open, and the picture appears in the graphics area, with its lower, left corner located at the origin.
In the PropertyManager, you can control the position of the image using the X position and Y position spin boxes..., as well as the angle. You can see that as I change the angle, the picture rotates about its zero, zero coordinate. For this example, I'll set the first three spin boxes to zero.
These next two spin boxes let you control the size of the picture. Notice that as I change the width of the picture, the height changes as well. This is because the Lock Aspect Ratio box is checked.
When the Enable Scale Tool checkbox is enabled, a scale line appears across the image. This scale line lets you quickly scale the picture properly. To use this, I'll drag the endpoints of the line to match up with the reference of the image I'd like to scale it to, starting with the left endpoint to define the fixed point..., and when I click and drag the right end of the line, shown with an arrow, the Modify dialog appears, where I can enter a reference dimension. I'll type in a value... and the image scales proportionally. To edit the scale, simply clear the checkbox..., and recheck it..., and you can make adjustments again. For this example, I'll fix one endpoint on the origin, drag the other diagonally across the image, and enter a value of 20 for the scale.
The next two buttons let you flip the image horizontally or vertically if it's imported in the wrong orientation.
The last set of options controls the transparency of the image. You can have no transparency..., use the transparency from the image file, for instance a PNG or PSD with a transparent background..., set a transparency value for the full image by using the slider under the full image option..., or you can create a user defined transparency. For user defined, you can use the eye dropper to select a specific color in the image to make transparent... and then use the sliders to adjust the tolerance of the color and the transparency amount. This is useful if you have an image with a colored background that you want to make transparent. I'll use the transparency from file for this example... and click the green check to insert the picture.
If you need to edit the sketch picture, just double click it to bring the PropertyManager back up..., or if you need to delete it, simply select it and press the delete key.