The Slicing Tool in SOLIDWORKS lets you quickly create a set of 2D sketches based on the intersection of selected geometry and reference planes. The selected geometry can be a solid, mesh, or graphics body, while the reference planes will be automatically generated by the Slicing tool. This can be useful when creating solid or surface geometry, but really shines when reverse engineering a part, or creating references for features.
 
 I have here a model of a Wrought Iron Decoration for a gate or railing that I want to use the slicing tool on to generate a series of sketches. To get started, I'll launch the tool by going to the Insert dropdown, and selecting Slicing. This brings up the Slicing PropertyManager, with the Slicing Planes selection box active. The type of selections made here will determine how the set of planes are generated, so I'll start by selecting the bottom flat face at the base of the model.
 
A bounding box made up of three planes offset a tenth of an inch apart appears in the graphics area surrounded by colored handles. These are the planes that'll be used to slice the model, so to make sure they're intersecting the geometry, you can reverse the direction by clicking either the grey handle in the graphics area, or the Reverse Direction icon in the PropertyManager.
 
You can then change the number of planes to specify how many sketches will be created, and adjust the offset value to alter their positioning. For this lesson, I'll use 10 planes, with a 44 mm offset between them. I'll make sure the slices are going upward towards the model, then continue on to the options.
 
The first option, which I recommend leaving checked, is purely organizational, and will group the planes and sketches created into a single folder to help reduce clutter in your Design Tree. The next option will preview the sketches that'll be created on the planes, but keep in mind that this'll reduce performance. I'll enable it, and notice that the fourth and sixth planes only show a partial preview of the cross sections, while the fifth plane doesn't show any preview at all.
 
 This is because, unlike most planes in SOLIDWORKS, the planes used by the slicing tool aren't infinite. This means that intersection sketches will only be created inside the bounding box. To make sure that the sketches capture geometry from the entire model, I just need to expand the bounding box by either dragging the colored drag handles in the graphics area, or adjusting their position numerically in the PropertyManager.
 
Once the previewed slices look the way you want, you can uncheck the preview option to restore SOLIDWORKS to its normal performance levels.
 
The final options here determine what kind of slices will be generated. Checking the Intersection option will generate the intersection sketch you saw in the preview, with the Exact checkbox being available for mesh geometry, while the Circle and Rectangle options will add additional sketch geometry that roughly matches the bounding box. I'm fine with the slice preview I saw, so I'll click OK, and you can see how a series of sketches were created based on the slices.
 
 Recall that at the beginning of the lesson, I mentioned that the selection that you make in the Slicing Plane selection box will determine how the planes are generated. To show you what kind of difference that can make, I'll switch over to a model of a Treble hook that I'll use to generate a series of angular slices. I'll start by activating the tool again, and selecting the construction line sketch running through the center of the model, along with a vertex on one of the hook ends.
 
 A bounding box appears like before, but this one is based on an angle rather than a distance, as you can see from the new offset value in the PropertyManager with units for degrees. The rest of the controls and options still work the same way, so I'll make sure the bounding box is tracking along the hook by modifying the number of planes to be 3 with a 120 degree offset between them, and that it encompasses the whole model by changing the bounding box size as necessary. This looks good, so I'll click the green check to create the sketches, and hide the body so you can better see the results.
 
Additionally, because I left the first PropertyManager option checked, a folder called Slice was added to the Feature Tree, and if I expand it, you can see all the planes and sketches the Slicing Tool created.