Knowing how to organize your designs visually can save you time and make the design process much smoother. When you have a block containing many elements, it can sometimes be beneficial to create blocks within blocks. This process is known as nesting and can provide greater organization when creating complex blocks to help you identify groups of sub-elements. Applying colors to blocks can also help you visually group items onscreen. I'll show you how these approaches work by using this sketch of a simplified Stephenson Valve Gear.
 
 To create nested blocks, I'll first need to edit an existing block, so I'll choose to edit this block of the Link component. From here, I can edit the block as normal by creating and modifying sketch entities, and the process works like it would for creating any other block. I can activate the Make Block tool, and select any entities I want to include in the block. I'll click OK, rebuild the feature from the Quick Access toolbar, and when I expand the block in the Feature tree, you can see how the block I just created is nested within the first block.
 
I can return to editing the same block and create additional nested blocks within it using other sketch entities or create even deeper levels of nesting within already nested blocks. Creating different levels through nesting gives you a lot of flexibility in how you structure blocks within sketches and organize sub-groups of related sketch components that you can save and load into other designs if desired.
 
 Nesting isn't the only organizational approach you can take with blocks, however. Applying colors to blocks can be a useful way of differentiating and grouping entities that are designated to become specific components or key areas of a larger sketch. They can also help you visually organize nested blocks. Let me show you.
 
 To apply a color, select the block in the graphics area or from the Feature tree, and under the Edit dropdown menu, expand the Appearance flyout menu, and select Sketch/Curve Color. A PropertyManager appears where you can add and remove items from the selection, select from a palette of colors using one of the available swatches, adjust the Color Properties using a series of sliders that change based on a toggle selection of either RGB or HSV color models, and how you'd like the colors to apply to configurations. For the Link block, I'll stick with the standard color swatch, choose a light blue color, leave the remaining settings at their default, and click OK to apply the color. I'll repeat the process by applying a green color to the two Eccentric components, and a red color to the rod component. Now you can see how this helps me visually organize and differentiate my sketch blocks.
 
 Colors can also be applied to entire sketches using this tool, but it's worth noting that you can't apply colors to sketch blocks if you've already applied the Belt/Chain tool, an option that I'll cover in more detail in the next lesson.