The concepts of Curvature, Equal Curvature and Continuous Curvature are very important in complex, swooping shapes. Curvature is identified as the inverse of radius, so that curvature C is equal to 1 over R.
You can see this graphically when a Curvature Comb is shown on a spline or other curved sketch entity. The curvature comb can be shown by right clicking the entity and selecting Show Curvature Combs from the menu, or in the case of splines, they can also be applied from the PropertyManager.
As the curvature comb gets taller, it means that the radius of the curve is getting smaller, making a tighter bend. When the curvature comb dwindles down to nothing as at the left end of this spline, it just means that the spline is flattening out into a straight line. If the curvature comb on a spline flips from one side to another, the point where it crosses is called an inflection point because the convexity flips.
A curvature comb on a circle is a comb of constant height all the way around.
Equal curvature is a situation where two arcs of the same radius touch at their ends.
Note that Tangency does not concern curvature at all. Here is a situation where the arcs are tangent, but have different curvatures, so the curvature combs between them are different heights.
Continuous curvature is when the curvature combs of two splines transition smoothly over the intersection between them. This makes for a smooth transition, shown here.
The Equal Curvature sketch relation causes the foreshortened radius symbol to be shown along with a spline handle. Notice also the smooth transition between the combs of the two splines.
When splines are made into surfaces, the transitions between surfaces are very critical. Transitions that are not tangent at all are seen as a hard edge. Think of a car body with a sharp crease and how the crease interrupts reflections.
A transition that is simply tangent is less abrupt than a hard crease, but the point where the curvature changes from one value to another is definitely identifiable. Transitions where the curvature changes smoothly across the edge are indistinguishable and are made by matching the curvature on either side of the transition. Another useful way to transition curvature is through Torsion Continuity. This relation takes curvature a step further than when using an Equal Curvature relation, and instead of the quick change you see here, the combs will be much more gradual.
I'll press undo to remove the Equal Curvature relation, and with the two spline segments selected, I'll choose the Torsion Continuity relation from the PropertyManager. As you can see, not only are the two combs equal at the point, but also have a much smoother transition as they move away from it.
The only restriction I want to mention is that if you're using a style spline with this relation, it will need to be of at least Degree 5, meaning it needs a minimum of 9 control vertices.
For more information on Torsion Continuity, I recommend you check out the SOLIDWORKS Help article on Applying Torsion Continuity Relations, and for a more thorough explanation of curvature continuity in general, check out SolidProfessor's Surfacing for Industrial Design course which goes into more details on this topic.